This year I completed a major milestone for my GRFP project when my paper was accepted for publication in Psychological Review after a lengthy review and revision process.  This paper makes a major theoretical contribution to how we understand how people manage to understand spoken language despite the fact that every talker produces language with their own unique accent or dialect.  It combines theoretical, behavioral work, computational modeling, and a comprehensive review of a broad range of literature on human speech perception that has not previously been given a systematic treatment.  This work has already begun to have broad impact, both in the field of speech perception in particular and in language processing and perception more broadly.  I have been invited to speak about this work at seminars at Stanford, Carnegie Melon, Tufts, the University of Illinois, and the University of Canterbury.  This work formed the basis of a jointly presented plenary lecture at the 2015 Australasian Speech Science and Technology Conference.  I have also been involved in the preparation of a large multi-national grant proposal submitted to Australian Research Council (Australia's NSF) for closely related experimental and computational modeling work.

I have also continued the work that formed the core of this project by investigating how well people use "labeling" information in order to learn about a new talker's accent.  At the most basic level, if a listener knows that a talker intended to produce a "b" sound instead of a "p" sound, they should be better able to learn how that talker produces their "b" sounds in general.  In some preliminary work we found that, surprisingly, listeners do _not_ appear to use labeling information in this way, a result we have presented at one conference and will present at others in the following year.  In the mean time, we are following up on this surprising result to determine why exactly people appear to ignore this apparently helpful information.

I also continue to pursue a variety of other related projects, including on how variability in the way that different people speak might affect language acquisition (with Cory Bonn) and how neural representations of complex categories of visual objects are learned and implemented in the brain (with Rajeev Raizada and Lauren Emberson).  Finally, I was awarded a pre-doctoral fellowship by the NIH to continue my work on human speech perception, adding cutting-edge neuroimaging methods to computational and behavioral methods.  Combined with the work I have already completed, this will significantly advance our understanding of how the brain manages to understand speech in the face of variability across talkers, accents, dialects, etc.  We have begun preliminary data collection on this project.
