In the past year, my work has continued to advance our understanding of
human speech perception. In particular, I have built on my earlier
theoretical work on how people rapidly adapt to an unfamiliar talker.
The central idea of this work is your experience with other talkers
helps you rapidly learn the particular idiosyncrasies of a new,
unfamiliar talker. An vitally important part of this process is the
implicit knowledge that listeners have about the range of variability
that they should expect across different kinds of talkers. These beliefs
are subjective and implicit, and are thus very hard to probe directly,
but in the last year I've shown that this is possible by looking at how
well people adapt to different accents and working backwards to their
shared prior beliefs. I've presented this work as a talk at the workshop
on Sociolinguistic Variation and Language Processing, and it has also
been accepted for talks at two other conferences (LabPhon and CogSci).

My other major focus over the last year has been to better understand
the neural mechanisms behind people's ability to rapidly adapt to
different talkers. This work has theoretical and empirical components.
Theoretically, I have developed connections between high-level
computational models of how human listeners adapt, and low-level
computational theories about how neural circuits adapt to changes in
their environment. This work was published this year in Psychonomic
Bulletin and Review. On the empirical side, I have collected and
analyzed data on how the human brain adapts to differences between
talkers, using fMRI and cutting-edge computational analyses. My
preliminary results show that at least one part of the speech perception
system codes acoustic input in a way that reflects learned,
talker-specific statistical properties. This finding is a significant
step in understanding the neural mechanisms of how listeners deal with
variability across talkers.

Finally, the computational framework I developed during my GRFP for
understanding how listeners cope with variability across talkers has
already had broad and substantial impact. Since appearing in
Psychological Review in early 2015, it has already been cited 45 times
(according to Google Scholar).
