This year I have continued to pursue my research on how people manage to perceive the meaning of speech in the face of the huge variation in the relationship between actual physical sounds and the intended meaning due to differences in pronunciation between individual talkers, dialects, accents, gender, etc.  This research focuses on tying together insights from previous work on how people adapt to new talkers, recognize old talkers, and generalize experience with similar talkers (e.g. with the same accent). These have generally been studied in isolation, but my computational modeling work suggests that all three can be thought of as consequences of people doing the best they can in a world where pronunciations change from situation to situation.  This work has resulted in a number of presentations at workshops focused specifically on this topic (one of which was awarded the "Best student presentation" prize), as well as invitations to speak on this subject at the University of Illinois and Tufts University.  We additionally submitted a paper that discusses these connections in great depth to Psychological Review, where it is currently under revision.

In preparation for the next stage of my career, I also wrote a pre-doctoral fellowship proposal application which connects my computational modeling work with cutting-edge neuroimaging techniques in order to address how the brain manages to deal with multiple ways of speaking.  Inspired by computational neuroscience work on efficient coding, I hypothesized that adapting to a different way of pronouncing a particular speech sound (like the "b" sound) might actually change the way that the acoustic properties of that sound are represented in very early sensory processing.  Moreover, based on my previous computational modeling work, I hypothesized that these changes might be controlled by top-down knowledge about a particular talker's pronunciations.  I am currently developing a series of experiments that address this question.

I have continued my outreach as an author on the Human Language Processing blog, disseminating useful information and software to the broader research community.  I also presented a tutorial at the Linguistic Society of America on analyzing data using the R statistical software.  
